---

title: "A Profile for Forwarding Commitments (FCs)"
abbrev: "Forwarding Commitments"
category: std

docname: draft-guo-fc-so-latest
submissiontype: IETF  # also: "independent", "IAB", or "IRTF"
number:
date:
consensus: true
v: 3
# area: AREA
# workgroup: WG Working Group
# keyword:
# - next generation
# - unicorn
# - sparkling distributed ledger
venue:
  #  group: WG
  #  type: Working Group
  #  mail: WG@example.com
  #  arch: https://example.com/WG
  github: "BasilGuo/fc-signed-object"
  latest: "https://BasilGuo.github.io/fc-signed-object/draft-guo-fc-so.html"

author:
-
    fullname: Ke Xu
    organization: Tsinghua University
    email: xuke@tsinghua.edu.cn
-
    fullname: Xiaoliang Wang
    orgnaization: Tsinghua University
    email:
-
    fullname: Yangfei Guo
    orgnization: Zhongguancun Labratory
    email: guoyangfei@zgclab.edu.cn
-
    fullname: Jiangou Zhan
    orgnization: Tsinghua University
    email: "904542587@qq.com" # TODO: use your edu.cn email

normative:
    RFC4271:
    RFC6480:
    RFC6488:

informative:


--- abstract

This document defines a standard profile for Forwarding Commitment (FC) objects for use with the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI). A FC is a digitally signed object that provides a means of verifying that an IP address prefix is announced by `AS a` to `AS b`. When validate, an FC's eContent can be used for detection and mitigation of route hijacking.


--- middle

# Introduction

TODO

# Conventions and Definitions

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}


# The FC Content-Type

The content-type for a FC is defined as ForwardingCommitment and has the numerical value of (TODO OID).

This OID MUST appear both within the eContentType in the encapContentInfo object as well as the content-type signed attribute in the signerInfo object (see {{RFC6488}}).

# The FC eContent

The content of a FC identifies a forwarding commitments and forwarding bindings that an Autonomous System (AS) announces to other nodes upon receiving BGP-update messages. Other ASes which on-path can validate the FC and perform path verification for traffic forwarding based on the AS-path information. Off-path ASes can utilize this FC for collaborative filtering. A FC is formally defined as:

    ForwardingCommitment ::= SEQUENCE {
        version [0] INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
        asIDs  ASID,
        prefixS SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..MAX)) OF Prefix,
        prefixD SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..MAX)) OF Prefix,
        fc FC }

    ASID ::= INTEGER

    Prefix ::= SEQUENCE {
        afi AFI,
        address IPAddress,
        prefixLength INTEGER }

    AFI ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))

    IPAddress ::= BIT STRING

    FC ::= SEQUENCE {
        sig BIT STRING
        hash BIT STRING }

Note that this content appears as the eContent within the encapContentInfo (see {{RFC6488}}).

## version

The version number of the ForwardingCommitment MUST be 0.

## asIDs

The asIDs field contains the AS number of the source AS associated with this FC in the BGP-Update message.

## prefixS

The prefixS field encodes the set of IP address prefixes which announced by the source AS in AS-path.

Within the Prefix structure, afi contains the Address Family Identifier of an IP address family. This specification only supports IPv4 and IPv6. Therefore, afi MUST be either 0001 or 0002. The address field contains the IP address, and the prefixLength field contains the lenth of IP address prefix.

## prefixD

The prefixD field encodes the set of IP address prefixes which announced by this AS.

## FC

The fc field encodes the forwarding commitment which generated by this AS and will be validated by other AS.

Within the FC structure, sig contains the hash of the endpoints of this hop and the IP prefix of this AS, and hash contains the hash of AS-path in the associated BGP-update plus next hop.

# FC Validation

TBD.



# Security Considerations

TODO Security


# IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.


--- back

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

TODO acknowledge.
